README.md, before:

#Structure
The goal of this project is to demonstrate the ideal setup and best practices when working with AngularJS, RequireJS, jQuery, Stylus, Grunt, and Mocha. Feel free to submit ideas and improvements via pull requests. 

These tools are extremely powerful and complementary when used correctly together.

##Getting Started
We use NodeJS-based tools like [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) and [Testacular](http://vojtajina.github.com/testacular/) for managing the project. This doesn't mean you have to use Node as your backend. Node + Express is a great way to go, but feel free to use Java or whatever you prefer. Let's get setup:

1. Make sure you have [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org/) installed
2. Make sure you have [git](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) installed
3. `$ git clone https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure.git && cd structure`
4. `$ npm install -g grunt-cli testacular@canary stylus`
5. `$ npm install`
6. (optional) `install [PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/)` for running tests during the build

Here we are cloning the "Structure" git repository, installing a few global (-g) Node tools, then installing the local project Node tools. That's it!

##Running the App
Make sure you're in the structure directory, and run:
`$ node server/server.js`
Now open your browser to `localhost:3000`. Node will serve up `app/index.html` as the home page. You'll see an Angular+RequireJS application running that demonstrates some of Angular's core concepts, and best practices for creating robust, scalable, and performant Angular apps.

##Benefits of this RequireJS + AngularJS setup
RequireJS has a few main benefits:
1. No more globals
2. Dependency management
3. Powerful "client-side middleware" via plugins
3. Killer optimization using r.js

The downside is that you have to add AMD boilerplate to all your files. But luckily Angular provides a great way to write code (directives, controllers, services etc) without the use of globals:

```js
//add a controller to the 'app' module
angular.module('app').controller('MyController', function(){
  
});
```

Note that passing a single parameter to `angular.module` returns a module previously created with that name. Passing two or more parameters will *create* or *override* said module.

Thanks to this cleverness we can now use RequireJS in a smart way and get all its benefits *without* the boilerplate. We simply load the files as regular scripts:

```js
/* bootstrap.js */
require(['app'], function(){
  //now that the app module loaded, load all controllers, services, directives, etc
  require([
    'ng!templates/partial1.html',
    'ng!templates/partial2.html',
    'controllers/one-ctrl', 
    'controllers/two-ctrl',
    'services/version-service', 
    'filters/version-filter',
    'directives/version-directive'
  ], 
  function(){
    //bootstrap now that all the module's files are loaded
    angular.bootstrap(document, ['app']);
  });
});
```

Also our unit tests can be simpler since we don't have to worry about loading asynchronously for the tests. 

See the full [bootstrap.js file](https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure/blob/master/app/js/bootstrap.js). RequireJS loads this file, which then instructs RequireJS to load everything else in our application.
All our files are loaded async which is great for performance, as the DomContentLoaded event will trigger *before* your scripts are parsed/executed instead of after (i.e. content shows up on the page faster than simply putting scripts at the bottom of the body tag).

##Grunt
[Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) is a task-based command-line tool for JavaScript. It's very useful during development, able to watch your files for changes and automatically run your tests, lint your files, and even refresh your browser automatically. Grunt is also great for build, optimization, and other project tasks. The Grunt community is large and there are hundreds of contributed plugins we can leverage in our projects. 

##Working with CSS & Stylus
CSS is a wonderful declarative layout method, but as a language it lacks some necessary features that would promote modularity and code reuse, such as variables, functions, mixins, and calculations. Some of these features are coming in a future version of CSS, but we can enjoy them now by using [Stylus](http://learnboost.github.com/stylus/) — a CSS preprocessor that compiles into regular CSS. Stylus is a powerful tool that can significantly improve the maintainability of your stylesheets, but you still need to really learn CSS.

To use Stylus we'll use the [grunt-contrib-stylus](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-stylus/) plugin and add the following to our Gruntfile.js:

```js
stylus: {
  compile: {
    files: {
      'app/styles/app.css': 'app/styles/app.styl'
    }
  }
}
```
Now running `$ grunt stylus` will compile the stylus file into a CSS file. Running this manually every time we change a style would not be ideal, so we'll automate it using the grunt watch task:

```js
watch: {
  stylus: {
    files: ['app/styles/**/*.styl'],
    tasks: ['stylus']
  }
}
```

Now we'll simply run `$ grunt watch` before working on stylesheets and they'll compile automatically on save. 

##Optimizing Your Project
Loading async is great for performance, but loading a hundered separate scripts is not so good. Rule #1 for performance (especially on mobile) is to reduce the number of HTTP requests. So we use r.js, RequireJS's build tool, to cut out all those extra requests. It's quite robust and configurable, and does a great job combining and minifying all our scripts into a single file, which is still loaded asynchronously by RequireJS. RequireJS takes some configuration settings, which we'll add to our Gruntfile.js like so:

```js
requirejs: {
  compile: {
    options: {
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

RequireJS gives you fine-grained control over the build. See the default requirejs settings we use in the [Gruntfile.js](https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure/blob/master/Gruntfile.js) for projects following this structure. For more information about what each setting does see the [RequireJS Optimization documentation](http://requirejs.org/docs/optimization.html).

##Running the Build
Run `$ grunt build`. Grunt kicks off the RequireJS build, combining and compressing all your JS and CSS files. An optimized copy of your `app` has been created in the `app-build` directory. Now all you have to do is deploy the built version of the app (app-build) and give yourself a high five for the awesome performance.

##Templates
There are a number of ways to use Angular templates. The most common are the `ng-view` directive, routes that point to a `templateUrl`, and inside of other directives. Whenever Angular first encounters the use of a template, it fetches it via an AJAX request, stores the fetched HTML into an Angular template and caches it in the templateCache for future use. This default behavior isn't ideal for most applications, it's better to load your templates up front so that navigation between views is instant (no additional requests). 

RequireJS gives us a powerful tool for handling non-JS dependencies like this: loader plugins. See [ng.js](https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure/blob/master/app/js/lib/ng.js), a loader plugin that will prefetch all your Angular templates on application startup, and cache them into the templateCache for use everywhere. You load your templates with the plugin like so:

```js
require('ng!templates/slider.html')
```

If there are some less-frequently used templates (like an admin page) that you'd rather load-on-demand, just don't use this plugin for those templates and let Angular do its default behavior. 

This plugin also generates an actual AMD module for each template during the build, inlining the HTML template as a JavaScript string and bundling all your templates into your one bootstrap.js file! You'll notice significant performance gains with this strategy.

##Testing Your Project
Unit tests are extremely important in JavaScript projects, and can even be fun to write if you use great tools and write tests while you develop (TDD/BDD). We recommend using [Mocha](http://visionmedia.github.com/mocha/) as your test framework. If you follow the conventions of this project then your Gruntfile.js is already setup for running your tests.

###Run the Node tests
Tests that are pure JavaScript (don't use DOM) can run in Node and use [should.js](https://github.com/visionmedia/should.js/) for assertions. Place these in the `test/node` directory.

Run `grunt simplemocha`.

###Run the Browser tests
Tests that run in browsers (need DOM) are best run simultaniously in your target browsers with [testacular](http://vojtajina.github.com/testacular/) and [expect.js](https://github.com/LearnBoost/expect.js) for assertions. Place these in the `test/browser` directory.

Run `grunt testacular:unit` to start the testacular server. Then in a new terminal window run `grunt watch`. Now whenever you save a JS file the tests will run automatically.

Commit message:

docs(README) no script tags in templates

README.md, after:

#Structure
The goal of this project is to demonstrate the ideal setup and best practices when working with AngularJS, RequireJS, jQuery, Stylus, Grunt, and Mocha. Feel free to submit ideas and improvements via pull requests. 

These tools are extremely powerful and complementary when used correctly together.

##Getting Started
We use NodeJS-based tools like [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) and [Testacular](http://vojtajina.github.com/testacular/) for managing the project. This doesn't mean you have to use Node as your backend. Node + Express is a great way to go, but feel free to use Java or whatever you prefer. Let's get setup:

1. Make sure you have [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org/) installed
2. Make sure you have [git](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) installed
3. `$ git clone https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure.git && cd structure`
4. `$ npm install -g grunt-cli testacular@canary stylus`
5. `$ npm install`
6. (optional) `install [PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/)` for running tests during the build

Here we are cloning the "Structure" git repository, installing a few global (-g) Node tools, then installing the local project Node tools. That's it!

##Running the App
Make sure you're in the structure directory, and run:
`$ node server/server.js`
Now open your browser to `localhost:3000`. Node will serve up `app/index.html` as the home page. You'll see an Angular+RequireJS application running that demonstrates some of Angular's core concepts, and best practices for creating robust, scalable, and performant Angular apps.

##Benefits of this RequireJS + AngularJS setup
RequireJS has a few main benefits:
1. No more globals
2. Dependency management
3. Powerful "client-side middleware" via plugins
3. Killer optimization using r.js

The downside is that you have to add AMD boilerplate to all your files. But luckily Angular provides a great way to write code (directives, controllers, services etc) without the use of globals:

```js
//add a controller to the 'app' module
angular.module('app').controller('MyController', function(){
  
});
```

Note that passing a single parameter to `angular.module` returns a module previously created with that name. Passing two or more parameters will *create* or *override* said module.

Thanks to this cleverness we can now use RequireJS in a smart way and get all its benefits *without* the boilerplate. We simply load the files as regular scripts:

```js
/* bootstrap.js */
require(['app'], function(){
  //now that the app module loaded, load all controllers, services, directives, etc
  require([
    'ng!templates/partial1.html',
    'ng!templates/partial2.html',
    'controllers/one-ctrl', 
    'controllers/two-ctrl',
    'services/version-service', 
    'filters/version-filter',
    'directives/version-directive'
  ], 
  function(){
    //bootstrap now that all the module's files are loaded
    angular.bootstrap(document, ['app']);
  });
});
```

Also our unit tests can be simpler since we don't have to worry about loading asynchronously for the tests. 

See the full [bootstrap.js file](https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure/blob/master/app/js/bootstrap.js). RequireJS loads this file, which then instructs RequireJS to load everything else in our application.
All our files are loaded async which is great for performance, as the DomContentLoaded event will trigger *before* your scripts are parsed/executed instead of after (i.e. content shows up on the page faster than simply putting scripts at the bottom of the body tag).

##Grunt
[Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) is a task-based command-line tool for JavaScript. It's very useful during development, able to watch your files for changes and automatically run your tests, lint your files, and even refresh your browser automatically. Grunt is also great for build, optimization, and other project tasks. The Grunt community is large and there are hundreds of contributed plugins we can leverage in our projects. 

##Working with CSS & Stylus
CSS is a wonderful declarative layout method, but as a language it lacks some necessary features that would promote modularity and code reuse, such as variables, functions, mixins, and calculations. Some of these features are coming in a future version of CSS, but we can enjoy them now by using [Stylus](http://learnboost.github.com/stylus/) — a CSS preprocessor that compiles into regular CSS. Stylus is a powerful tool that can significantly improve the maintainability of your stylesheets, but you still need to really learn CSS.

To use Stylus we'll use the [grunt-contrib-stylus](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-stylus/) plugin and add the following to our Gruntfile.js:

```js
stylus: {
  compile: {
    files: {
      'app/styles/app.css': 'app/styles/app.styl'
    }
  }
}
```
Now running `$ grunt stylus` will compile the stylus file into a CSS file. Running this manually every time we change a style would not be ideal, so we'll automate it using the grunt watch task:

```js
watch: {
  stylus: {
    files: ['app/styles/**/*.styl'],
    tasks: ['stylus']
  }
}
```

Now we'll simply run `$ grunt watch` before working on stylesheets and they'll compile automatically on save. 

##Optimizing Your Project
Loading async is great for performance, but loading a hundered separate scripts is not so good. Rule #1 for performance (especially on mobile) is to reduce the number of HTTP requests. So we use r.js, RequireJS's build tool, to cut out all those extra requests. It's quite robust and configurable, and does a great job combining and minifying all our scripts into a single file, which is still loaded asynchronously by RequireJS. RequireJS takes some configuration settings, which we'll add to our Gruntfile.js like so:

```js
requirejs: {
  compile: {
    options: {
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

RequireJS gives you fine-grained control over the build. See the default requirejs settings we use in the [Gruntfile.js](https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure/blob/master/Gruntfile.js) for projects following this structure. For more information about what each setting does see the [RequireJS Optimization documentation](http://requirejs.org/docs/optimization.html).

##Running the Build
Run `$ grunt build`. Grunt kicks off the RequireJS build, combining and compressing all your JS and CSS files. An optimized copy of your `app` has been created in the `app-build` directory. Now all you have to do is deploy the built version of the app (app-build) and give yourself a high five for the awesome performance.

##Templates
There are a number of ways to use Angular templates. The most common are the `ng-view` directive, routes that point to a `templateUrl`, and inside of other directives. Whenever Angular first encounters the use of a template, it fetches it via an AJAX request, stores the fetched HTML into an Angular template and caches it in the templateCache for future use. This default behavior isn't ideal for most applications, it's better to load your templates up front so that navigation between views is instant (no additional requests). 

RequireJS gives us a powerful tool for handling non-JS dependencies like this: loader plugins. See [ng.js](https://github.com/OpenWebStack/structure/blob/master/app/js/lib/ng.js), a loader plugin that will prefetch all your Angular templates on application startup, and cache them into the templateCache for use everywhere. You load your templates with the plugin like so:

```js
require('ng!templates/slider.html')
```

If there are some less-frequently used templates (like an admin page) that you'd rather load-on-demand, just don't use this plugin for those templates and let Angular do its default behavior. 

This plugin also generates an actual AMD module for each template during the build, inlining the HTML template as a JavaScript string and bundling all your templates into your one bootstrap.js file! You'll notice significant performance gains with this strategy.

NOTE: Please do not put `script` tags in your Angular template files! Things will break and kittens will die. 

##Testing Your Project
Unit tests are extremely important in JavaScript projects, and can even be fun to write if you use great tools and write tests while you develop (TDD/BDD). We recommend using [Mocha](http://visionmedia.github.com/mocha/) as your test framework. If you follow the conventions of this project then your Gruntfile.js is already setup for running your tests.

###Run the Node tests
Tests that are pure JavaScript (don't use DOM) can run in Node and use [should.js](https://github.com/visionmedia/should.js/) for assertions. Place these in the `test/node` directory.

Run `grunt simplemocha`.

###Run the Browser tests
Tests that run in browsers (need DOM) are best run simultaniously in your target browsers with [testacular](http://vojtajina.github.com/testacular/) and [expect.js](https://github.com/LearnBoost/expect.js) for assertions. Place these in the `test/browser` directory.

Run `grunt testacular:unit` to start the testacular server. Then in a new terminal window run `grunt watch`. Now whenever you save a JS file the tests will run automatically.
